docs: document Save table to dashboard button in Discover (#5880) (#6037)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/discover/save-open-search.md

Author: ```suggestion
navigation_title: Save a Discover session for reuse
```

Author: ```suggestion
# Save a Discover session for reuse [save-open-search]
```

applies_to:
  stack: ga
  serverless: ga
type: how-to
products:
  - id: kibana

> description: Save Discover sessions to reuse searches, queries, and configured views. Add saved searches to dashboards or use them as a foundation for building visualizations.

Reviewer: General comment, I think this page's title "Save a search for reuse" is not a great match for its content, which says it's about saving Discover sessions. Why not "Save a Discover session for reuse"?

Author: Agreed it's still the old name

1. Once you’ve created a view worth saving, select **Save** in the application menu. A modal with several options opens:
    1. Enter a **Title** for the session, and optionally a **Description** and [**Tags**](../find-and-organize/tags.md).
    2. If the session is time-based, turn on **Store time with Discover session** to save the current time filter and refresh interval with it.

>     3. {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` Under **Add to dashboard**, select **Existing** to add the session as a panel on a dashboard you choose, **New** to add it to a brand-new dashboard, or **None** to save the session to the library.

Author: ```suggestion
    3. {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` In **Add to dashboard**, select **Existing** to add the session as a panel on a dashboard you choose, **New** to add it to a brand-new dashboard, or **None** to save the session to the library.
```

>     3. {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` Optionally, under **Add to dashboard**, add the session to a dashboard at the same time as you save it. For details, refer to [Save the session from Discover, with Add to dashboard](#save-discover-session-with-add-to-dashboard).

Author: ```suggestion
    3. {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` Under **Add to dashboard**, select **Existing** to add the session as a panel on a dashboard you choose, **New** to add it to a brand-new dashboard, or **None** to save the session to the library.
```

1. In **Discover**, open the Discover session that you want to duplicate.
2. In the application menu, open the menu next to **Save** and select **Save as**. The **Save Discover session** modal opens.
3. Enter a **Title** for the new session, and optionally a **Description** and [**Tags**](../find-and-organize/tags.md).
4. {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` Optionally, in **Add to dashboard**, add the new session to a dashboard at the same time as you save it. For details, refer to [Save a Discover session](#_save_a_discover_session).
5. Select **Save**.
:::

:::{applies-item} { stack: ga 9.0-9.3 }
1. In **Discover**, open the Discover session that you want to duplicate.
2. In the application menu, select **Save**.
3. Give the session a new name.
4. Turn on **Save as new Discover session**.
5. Select **Save**.
:::

::::

## Use Discover sessions in dashboards [_add_search_results_to_a_dashboard]

You can add different pieces of a Discover session to a dashboard:

- [The visualization](#add-discover-visualization-to-dashboard) — the Lens chart generated by your query
- [The data table](#save-table-to-dashboard) — the documents grid with your query results

> - [The entire Discover session](#add-full-discover-session-to-dashboard) — a panel that preserves your query, filters, columns, and sort order

Author: ```suggestion
- [The visualization](#add-discover-visualization-to-dashboard): the chart generated by your query.
- [The data table](#save-table-to-dashboard): the table with your query results.
- [The entire Discover session](#add-full-discover-session-to-dashboard): the table of each tab in your session, with filters, columns, and sort order preserved. You can display one tab at a time in the resulting dashboard panel.
```

### Add the Discover visualization to a dashboard [add-discover-visualization-to-dashboard]

When a query in Discover produces a chart, you can save that chart as a visualization panel on a new or existing dashboard, without saving the Discover session itself. The exact flow depends on the query mode you're using in Discover.

To use either workflow, you need permission to view and create dashboards.

#### In {{esql}} mode [add-discover-visualization-esql]

1. In Discover, run an {{esql}} query that produces a chart.

> 2. Next to the chart, select {icon}`app_dashboard` **Save visualization to dashboard** (or {icon}`save` **Save visualization** in versions earlier than 9.4).

Author: ```suggestion
2. Next to the chart, select {icon}`app_dashboard` **Save visualization to dashboard** (or {icon}`save` **Save visualization** depending on the version you're using).
```

To use this option, you need permission to view and create dashboards. The button isn't available when Discover is opened from another application, such as when editing a session panel from a dashboard.

1. In the documents table toolbar, select {icon}`app_dashboard` **Save table to dashboard**.
2. Enter a title for the panel, and optionally a description.
3. In **Add to dashboard**, select **New** to create a dashboard, or **Existing** to choose one from the list.
4. Select **Save and go to dashboard**.

### Add an entire Discover session to a dashboard [add-full-discover-session-to-dashboard]

A full Discover session panel retains the session's tabs, columns, sort order, and other settings, and can display a single tab as a data table. If the session has multiple tabs, you can [choose which tab the panel displays](#discover-session-choose-tab).

There are several ways to add a full session as a panel:

- [Add a saved session from the dashboard library](#add-discover-session-from-library)
- {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.4` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` [Create a **Discover session** panel from the dashboard's **Add** menu](#add-ad-hoc-discover-session-panel)

> - {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` [Save the session from Discover with a relevant **Add to dashboard** option selected](#save-discover-session-with-add-to-dashboard)

Author: ```suggestion
- {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` [Save a session from Discover with a relevant **Add to dashboard** option selected](#save-discover-session-with-add-to-dashboard)
```

2. Go to **Dashboards**.
3. Open or create the dashboard, then switch to **Edit** mode if necessary.
4. Depending on the version you're using, select **Add from library**, or **Add** > **From library**.
5. From the **Types** dropdown, select **Discover session**.
6. Select the Discover session that you want to add, then select **X** to close the list.

#### Create a Discover session from the dashboard [add-ad-hoc-discover-session-panel]
```{applies_to}
stack: ga 9.4
serverless: ga
```

Create a single-tab Discover session directly on a dashboard, without first saving it to the library. The session is stored with the dashboard and isn't saved to the library.

To use this option, you need permission to access Discover, and the dashboard must be in **Edit** mode.

1. On the dashboard, select **Add panel** > **New panel**.
2. In the **Visualizations** group, select {icon}`app_discover` **Discover session**. Discover opens in embedded editor mode.
3. Configure the session: enter a query, adjust columns, sort, and other view settings as needed.
4. Select **Save and return** in the application menu to add the configured panel to the dashboard.

> #### Add the session to a dashboard when saving it from Discover [save-discover-session-with-add-to-dashboard]

Author: ```suggestion
#### Add a session to a dashboard when saving it from Discover [save-discover-session-with-add-to-dashboard]
```

3. Give the session a new name.
4. Turn on **Save as new Discover session**.
5. Select **Save**.
:::

::::

## Use Discover sessions in dashboards [_add_search_results_to_a_dashboard]

You can add different pieces of a Discover session to a dashboard, and manage how they appear:

- [The visualization](#add-discover-visualization-to-dashboard): the chart generated by your query.
- [The data table](#save-table-to-dashboard): the table with your query results.
- [The entire Discover session](#add-full-discover-session-to-dashboard): the table of each tab in your session, with filters, columns, and sort order preserved. You can display one tab at a time in the resulting dashboard panel.
- [Manage session panels](#manage-discover-session-panels): edit a session panel from a dashboard, save your edits as a new session, or choose which tab to display.

### Add the Discover visualization to a dashboard [add-discover-visualization-to-dashboard]

When a query in Discover produces a chart, you can save that chart as a visualization panel on a new or existing dashboard, without saving the Discover session itself. The exact flow depends on the query mode you're using in Discover.

> To use either workflow, you need permission to view and create dashboards.

Author: ```suggestion
You need permission to view and create dashboards.
```

#### In {{esql}} mode [add-discover-visualization-esql]

1. In Discover, run an {{esql}} query that produces a chart.
2. Next to the chart, select {icon}`app_dashboard` **Save visualization to dashboard** (or {icon}`save` **Save visualization** depending on the version you're using).
3. Enter a title for the panel, and optionally a description.
4. In **Add to dashboard**, select **New** to create a dashboard, or **Existing** to choose one from the list.
5. Select **Save and go to dashboard**.

:::{note}
:applies_to: stack: ga 9.0-9.2

> In these versions, if your {{esql}} query defines [variable controls](try-esql.md#add-variable-control), they aren't added to the dashboard when using this method. To preserve them, use the [Import a Discover query along with its controls into a dashboard](try-esql.md#import-discover-query-with-controls) workflow instead.

Author: ```suggestion
In these versions, if your {{esql}} query defines [variable controls](try-esql.md#add-variable-control), they aren't added to the dashboard when using this method. To preserve them, follow [Import a Discover query along with its controls into a dashboard](try-esql.md#import-discover-query-with-controls) instead.
```

## Duplicate a Discover session [_duplicate_a_discover_session]

To duplicate an existing Discover session as a new one, the workflow depends on the version you're using.

::::{applies-switch}

:::{applies-item} { stack: ga 9.4+, serverless: ga }
1. In **Discover**, open the Discover session that you want to duplicate.
2. In the application menu, from the menu next to **Save**, select **Save as**. The **Save Discover session** modal opens.
3. Enter a **Title** for the new session, and optionally a **Description** and [**Tags**](../find-and-organize/tags.md).

> 4. {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` Optionally, use **Add to dashboard** to choose where to save the session. For details, refer to [Save a Discover session](#_save_a_discover_session).

Author: ```suggestion
4. {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` In **Add to dashboard**, select **Existing** to add the session as a panel on a dashboard you choose, **New** to add it to a brand-new dashboard, or **None** to save the session to the library.
```

5. Select **Save**.
:::

:::{applies-item} { stack: ga 9.0-9.3 }
1. In **Discover**, open the Discover session that you want to duplicate.
2. In the application menu, select **Save**.
3. Enter a new name for the session.
4. Turn on **Save as new Discover session**.
5. Select **Save**.
:::

::::

## Use Discover sessions in dashboards [_add_search_results_to_a_dashboard]

You can add different pieces of a Discover session to a dashboard, and manage how they appear:

- [The visualization](#add-discover-visualization-to-dashboard): the chart generated by your query.
- [The data table](#save-table-to-dashboard): the table with your query results.

> - [The entire Discover session](#add-full-discover-session-to-dashboard): the table of each tab in your session, with filters, columns, and sort order preserved. You can display one tab at a time in the resulting dashboard panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [The entire Discover session](#add-full-discover-session-to-dashboard): the tables from each tab in your session, with filters, columns, and sort order preserved. You can display one table at a time in the resulting dashboard panel.
```

Author: That sounds less accurate to me, there is only one table per session tab. And in the dashboard panel, you select which tab of your session will be displayed.

- [Manage session panels](#manage-discover-session-panels): edit a session panel from a dashboard, save your edits as a new session, or choose which tab to display.

> ### Add the Discover visualization to a dashboard [add-discover-visualization-to-dashboard]

Reviewer: Why "add the" not "Add a" or "Add Discover visualizations"

```suggestion
### Add Discover visualizations to dashboards [add-discover-visualization-to-dashboard]
```

> When a query in Discover produces a chart, you can save that chart as a visualization panel on a new or existing dashboard, without saving the Discover session itself. The exact flow depends on the query mode you're using in Discover.

Reviewer: worth linking to "Query mode"? Would've saved me a google, but perhaps the target audience is okay without

Author: Good point 
```suggestion
When a query in Discover produces a chart, you can save that chart as a visualization panel on a new or existing dashboard, without saving the Discover session itself. The exact flow depends on the [query mode](discover-get-started.md#search-in-discover) you're using in Discover.
```

> You need permission to view and create dashboards.

Reviewer: This seems like it wants to be a {note}

Reviewer: perhaps with a link to a requirements section

Author: I don't think this warrants a note

#### In {{esql}} mode [add-discover-visualization-esql]

1. In Discover, run an {{esql}} query that produces a chart.
2. Next to the chart, select {icon}`app_dashboard` **Save visualization to dashboard** (or {icon}`save` **Save visualization** depending on the version you're using).
3. Enter a title for the panel, and optionally a description.
4. In **Add to dashboard**, select **New** to create a dashboard, or **Existing** to choose one from the list.
5. Select **Save and go to dashboard**.

:::{note}
:applies_to: stack: ga 9.0-9.2

> In these versions, if your {{esql}} query defines [variable controls](try-esql.md#add-variable-control), they aren't added to the dashboard when using this method. To preserve them, follow [Import a Discover query along with its controls into a dashboard](try-esql.md#import-discover-query-with-controls) instead.

Author: ```suggestion
:applies_to: stack: ga =9.2
In that version, if your {{esql}} query defines [variable controls](try-esql.md#add-variable-control), they aren't added to the dashboard when using this method. To preserve them, follow [Import a Discover query along with its controls into a dashboard](try-esql.md#import-discover-query-with-controls) instead.
```

> :::

Reviewer 2: I believe we only added ES|QL control support to Discover in 9.2: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/229598.

In general I wonder how many of these kinds of caveats we should add. If we do it for each feature where full support rolls out across releases, we could end up with many.

Author: Yeah that's kind of the curse of our docs model here that became cumulative since v9 - I generally try to work around it when possible, but can't always avoid or sacrifice clarity

#### In classic mode [add-discover-visualization-classic]

In classic mode there's no direct save button next to the chart. Instead, you open the chart in **Lens**, edit it as needed, and save from there.

The {icon}`app_lens` **Edit visualization** button only appears when the {{data-source}} you're querying is time-based and its time field can be visualized. If those conditions aren't met, the chart isn't shown and the button isn't available.

1. In Discover, run a query that produces a chart.
2. Next to the chart, select {icon}`app_lens` **Edit visualization**. The chart opens in **Lens**, prefilled with your current query and time range.
3. In Lens, adjust the visualization as needed.
4. Select **Save** in the Lens application menu.
5. Enter a **Title** for the panel, and optionally a **Description**.
6. In **Add to dashboard**, select **New** to create a dashboard, or **Existing** to choose one from the list.
7. Select **Save and go to dashboard**.

> ### Add the Discover table to a dashboard [save-table-to-dashboard]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add Discover tables to dashboards [save-table-to-dashboard]
```

```{applies_to}
stack: ga 9.4
serverless: ga
```

Save the current view of the documents table to a new or existing dashboard without first saving the Discover session to the library. The resulting panel stores its configuration with the dashboard, so later changes to the Discover session don't affect the panel.

To use this option, you need permission to view and create dashboards. The button isn't available when Discover is opened from another application, such as when editing a session panel from a dashboard.

1. In the documents table toolbar, select {icon}`app_dashboard` **Save table to dashboard**.
2. Enter a title for the panel, and optionally a description.
3. In **Add to dashboard**, select **New** to create a dashboard, or **Existing** to choose one from the list.
4. Select **Save and go to dashboard**.

### Add an entire Discover session to a dashboard [add-full-discover-session-to-dashboard]

> A full Discover session panel retains the session's tabs, columns, sort order, and other settings, and can display a single tab as a data table.

Reviewer 2: We mention similar in the "Use Discover sessions in dashboards" list above, but it's also the case that columns, sort, filters, etc. are retained for the "Add the Discover table to a dashboard" flow too. The main differences are reuse from the library and multi-tab / tab selection. Not sure we actually need to change anything, just highlighting for clarity.

There are several ways to add a full session as a panel:

- [Add a saved session from the dashboard library](#add-discover-session-from-library)

> - {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.4` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` [Create a **Discover session** panel from the dashboard's **Add** menu](#add-ad-hoc-discover-session-panel)

Reviewer 2: This flow is actually the same as "Add the Discover table to a dashboard" in that it saves the panel config directly to the dashboard instead of to the library as a "full session".

Given that, I wonder if the clearer distinction would be "saved" session instead of "full" session? Not a strong opinion on that one, just thinking out loud.

Author: Yeah reading your comments I think it may not be necessary to make the distinction between "add a full session" and "add the table" as what matters most is what you get at the end on your dashboard (a viz or a table) and whether it just exists on that dashboard or is also in the library. I will simplify that - maybe in a follow up if I don't have time to do it before tomorrow's release

- {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` [Save a session from Discover with a relevant **Add to dashboard** option selected](#save-discover-session-with-add-to-dashboard)

#### Add a saved session from the dashboard library [add-discover-session-from-library]

Use this method to add a session that's already saved to the library.

1. Save the Discover session following the steps in [Save a Discover session](#_save_a_discover_session).
2. Go to **Dashboards**.
3. Open or create the dashboard, then switch to **Edit** mode if necessary.
4. Depending on the version you're using, select **Add from library**, or **Add** > **From library**.
5. From the **Types** dropdown, select **Discover session**.
6. Select the Discover session that you want to add, then select **X** to close the list.

#### Create a Discover session from the dashboard [add-ad-hoc-discover-session-panel]
```{applies_to}
stack: ga 9.4
serverless: ga
```

Create a single-tab Discover session directly on a dashboard, without first saving it to the library. The session is stored with the dashboard and isn't saved to the library.

> To use this option, you need permission to access Discover, and the dashboard must be in **Edit** mode.

Reviewer: option to link to discover perms

Author: We don't yet have something comprehensive that I'd like to link to, but plan to have in the future; so we can keep this simple for now.

> 1. On the dashboard, select **Add panel** > **New panel**.

Reviewer 2: On main, it looks like this is now `Add > New` similar to `Add a saved session from the dashboard library > 4`.

Author: yes I have a different issue for that - those renamings just landed (so will be soon in serverless, and later in 9.5)

> 2. In the **Visualizations** group, select {icon}`app_discover` **Discover session**. Discover opens in embedded editor mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. In the **Other visualizations** group, select {icon}`app_discover` **Discover session**. Discover opens in embedded editor mode.
```
Looks like it's now `Other visualizations` now in main.

Author: Ah yeah and I made that copy - I have a different issue for that - those renamings just landed (so will be soon in serverless, and later in 9.5)

3. Configure the session: enter a query, adjust columns, sort, and other view settings as needed.
4. Select **Save and return** in the application menu to add the configured panel to the dashboard.

#### Add a session to a dashboard when saving it from Discover [save-discover-session-with-add-to-dashboard]
```{applies_to}
stack: ga 9.5
serverless: ga
```

> You can save a Discover session directly to a new or existing dashboard, as described in [](#_save_a_discover_session).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can save a Discover session directly to a new or existing dashboard, as described in [Save a Discover session](#_save_a_discover_session).
```
Looks like we might be missing some link text.

Author: this automatically pulls the section title (or the page title > section title when it's a relative link to another page)

Reviewer 2: TIL!

### Manage Discover session panels on a dashboard [manage-discover-session-panels]

#### Save panel edits as a new Discover session [discover-session-save-as-from-dashboard]
```{applies_to}
stack: ga 9.4
serverless: ga
```

When editing a Discover session panel from a dashboard, you can save your changes as a new Discover session, instead of updating the panel in place. This works whether the panel was added from the library or created directly on the dashboard.

1. On the dashboard, hover over the panel and select {icon}`pencil` **Edit Discover session configuration**. Discover opens in embedded editor mode.
2. Make your changes in **Discover**.
3. In the application menu, from the menu next to **Save and return**, select **Save as**.
4. In the **Save Discover session** modal, enter a **Title** for the new session, and optionally a **Description** and [**Tags**](../find-and-organize/tags.md).
5. {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` In **Add to dashboard**, choose where to save the new session:

>    - **Existing**: Save the session as a panel on a dashboard you select.

Author: ```suggestion
   - **Existing**: Save the session as an additional panel on a dashboard that already exists.
```

   - **New**: Save the session as a panel on a new dashboard.

>    - **None**: Save the session to the library only.

Author: ```suggestion
   - **None**: Save the session to the library.
```

#### Save the current table to a dashboard [save-table-to-dashboard]
```{applies_to}
stack: ga 9.4
serverless: ga
```

From Discover, save the current view of the table to a new or existing dashboard, without saving the Discover session to the library. The resulting panel stores its configuration with the dashboard, so later changes to the Discover session don't affect the panel. If the session has multiple tabs, only the current table is saved.

The button isn't available when Discover is opened from another application, such as when editing a session panel from a dashboard.

1. In the documents table toolbar, select {icon}`app_dashboard` **Save table to dashboard**.
2. Enter a title for the panel, and optionally a description.
3. In **Add to dashboard**, select **New** to create a dashboard, or **Existing** to choose one from the list.
4. Select **Save and go to dashboard**.

#### Save a Discover session to a dashboard or to the library [save-discover-session-with-add-to-dashboard]

From Discover, save the entire Discover session, including all its tabs, columns, sort order, and other settings.

::::{applies-switch}

:::{applies-item} {"stack": "ga 9.5", "serverless": "ga"}

> When you save the session, the **Add to dashboard** option determines what happens to it:

Author: ```suggestion
When you save the session, the **Add to dashboard** option of the dialog determines what happens to it:
```

:::{applies-item} {"stack": "ga 9.5", "serverless": "ga"}
When you save the session, the **Add to dashboard** option of the dialog determines what happens to it:

- **New** or **Existing**: The session is saved as a panel on a dashboard. The panel's configuration is stored with the dashboard, and the session isn't saved to the library. If the session has multiple tabs, you can [choose which tab the panel displays](#discover-session-choose-tab) on the dashboard.
- **None**: The session is saved to the library, without being added to a dashboard. From there, you can later [add it as a panel on any dashboard](#add-discover-session-from-library).

Follow the steps under [Save a Discover session](#_save_a_discover_session), and select the **Add to dashboard** option that matches what you want.
:::

:::{applies-item} {"stack": "ga 9.0-9.4"}
Saving from Discover saves the session to the library only. To put it on a dashboard, follow the steps under [Save a Discover session](#_save_a_discover_session), then [add the session from the dashboard library](#add-discover-session-from-library).
:::

::::

#### Add a Discover session from the library [add-discover-session-from-library]

> From a dashboard, add a Discover session that's already saved to the library. The same session can be added to multiple dashboards, and each panel stays linked to the library, so updates to the session are reflected on all dashboards. You can break that link by unlinking a panel from the library after adding it.

Author: ```suggestion
From a dashboard, add a Discover session that's already saved to the library. The same session can be added to multiple dashboards, and each panel stays linked to the library, so updates to the session are reflected on all dashboards. You can break that link by unlinking a panel from the library after adding it from the panel's contextual menu.
```

5. Click **Save**.

## Use Discover sessions in dashboards [_add_search_results_to_a_dashboard]

> You can surface three kinds of Discover content as panels on a dashboard:

Author: ```suggestion
You can add different pieces of a Discover session to a dashboard:
```

> - [The visualization of a session tab](#add-discover-visualization-to-dashboard): the chart that sits above the documents table when you run an {{esql}} query.

Author: ```suggestion
- [The visualization](#add-discover-visualization-to-dashboard)
```

> - [The documents table of a session tab](#save-table-to-dashboard): the data grid below the chart.

Author: ```suggestion
- [The data table](#save-table-to-dashboard), that contains the results of a particular query
```

> - [A full Discover session](#add-full-discover-session-to-dashboard): a panel backed by the session itself, with several routes for adding it.

Author: ```suggestion
- [The entire Discover session](#add-full-discover-session-to-dashboard), that allows you to select between the result tables of all tabs saved with the session when you set up the panel on the dashboard
```

> ### Add the visualization of a session tab to a dashboard [add-discover-visualization-to-dashboard]

Author: ```suggestion
### Add the Discover visualization to a dashboard [add-discover-visualization-to-dashboard]
```

> When an {{esql}} query in Discover produces a chart, you can save that chart as a Lens panel on a new or existing dashboard, without saving the Discover session itself.

Author: ```suggestion
When a query in Discover produces a chart, you can save that chart as a visualization panel on a new or existing dashboard, without saving the Discover session itself.
```

To use this option, you need permission to view and create dashboards. The button only appears for {{esql}} queries.

1. In Discover, run an {{esql}} query that produces a chart.

> 2. Above the chart, select {icon}`app_dashboard` **Save visualization to dashboard** (or {icon}`save` **Save visualization** in stack versions earlier than 9.4).

Author: ```suggestion
2. Next to the chart, select {icon}`app_dashboard` **Save visualization to dashboard** or {icon}`save` **Save visualization** depending on the version you're using.
```

3. Enter a title for the panel, and optionally a description.

> 4. Under **Add to dashboard**, select **New** to create a dashboard, or **Existing** to pick one from the list.

Author: ```suggestion
4. In **Add to dashboard**, select **New** to create a dashboard, or **Existing** to choose one from the list.
```

> 5. Select **Save and go to Dashboard**.

Author: ```suggestion
5. Select **Save and go to dashboard**.
```

> If your query also defines [variable controls](try-esql.md#add-variable-control), use the dedicated [Import a Discover query along with its controls into a dashboard](try-esql.md#import-discover-query-with-controls) workflow instead, so the controls are added to the dashboard alongside the visualization.

Author: ```suggestion
:::{note}
:applies_to: stack: 9.0-9.2
In the specified versions of {{kib}}, if your {{esql}} query defines [variable controls](try-esql.md#add-variable-control), they aren't added to the dashboard when using this method. Check [Import a Discover query along with its controls into a dashboard](try-esql.md#import-discover-query-with-controls) for more information.
:::
```

> ### Add the documents table of a session tab to a dashboard [save-table-to-dashboard]

Author: ```suggestion
### Add the Discover table to a dashboard [save-table-to-dashboard]
```

```{applies_to}
stack: ga 9.4
serverless: ga
```

Save the current view of the documents table to a new or existing dashboard without first saving the Discover session to the library. The resulting panel stores its configuration with the dashboard, so later changes to the Discover session don't affect the panel.

> To use this option, you need permission to view and create dashboards. The button isn't available when you're editing Discover inline from another app, such as the dashboard embeddable editor.

Author: ```suggestion
To use this option, you need permission to view and create dashboards. The button isn't available when you edit a Discover session from another application than Discover itself.
```

1. In the documents table toolbar, select {icon}`app_dashboard` **Save table to dashboard**.
2. Enter a title for the panel, and optionally a description.

> 3. Under **Add to dashboard**, select **New** to create a dashboard, or **Existing** to pick one from the list.

Author: ```suggestion
3. In **Add to dashboard**, select **New** to create a dashboard, or **Existing** to choose one from the list.
```

> 4. Select **Save and go to Dashboard**.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Select **Save and go to dashboard**.
```

> ### Add a full Discover session to a dashboard [add-full-discover-session-to-dashboard]

Author: ```suggestion
### Add an entire Discover session to a dashboard [add-full-discover-session-to-dashboard]
```

> A full session panel is backed by a Discover session, including its tabs, columns, sort order, and other settings. The panel always displays a single tab as a documents table; if the session has multiple tabs, you can [choose which tab the panel displays](#discover-session-choose-tab).

Author: ```suggestion
When saving a full Discover session and adding it to a dashboard, it includes its tabs, columns, sort order, and other settings. The resulting dashboard panel can display a single tab as a data table. If the session has multiple tabs, you can [choose which tab the panel displays](#discover-session-choose-tab).
```

There are several ways to add a full session as a panel:

> - [Pick a saved session from the dashboard library](#add-discover-session-from-library)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Add a saved session from the dashboard library](#add-discover-session-from-library)
```

> - {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.4` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` [Create an ad hoc session from the dashboard Add panel menu](#add-ad-hoc-discover-session-panel)

Author: ```suggestion
- {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.4` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` [Create a **Discover session** panel from the dashboard's **Add** menu](#add-ad-hoc-discover-session-panel)
```

> - {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` [Save the session from Discover, with Add to dashboard](#save-discover-session-with-add-to-dashboard)

Author: ```suggestion
- {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` [Save the session from Discover with a relevant **Add to dashboard** option selected](#save-discover-session-with-add-to-dashboard)
```

> - {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.4` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` [Save panel edits as a new session](#discover-session-save-as-from-dashboard)

Author: ```suggestion
- {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` [Save Discover panel edits initiated from a dashboard as a new session](#discover-session-save-as-from-dashboard)
```

> #### Pick a saved session from the dashboard library [add-discover-session-from-library]

Author: ```suggestion
#### Add a saved session from the dashboard library [add-discover-session-from-library]
```

Use this method to add a session that's already saved to the library.

1. Save the Discover session following the steps in [Save a Discover session](#_save_a_discover_session).
2. Go to **Dashboards**.

> 3. Open or create the dashboard, then select **Edit**.

Author: ```suggestion
3. Open or create the dashboard, then switch to **Edit** mode if necessary.
```

> 4. Select **Add from library**.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Depending on the version you're using, select **Add from library**, or **Add** > **From library**.
```

5. From the **Types** dropdown, select **Discover session**.
6. Select the Discover session that you want to add, then select **X** to close the list.

> #### Create an ad hoc session from the dashboard Add panel menu [add-ad-hoc-discover-session-panel]

Author: ```suggestion
#### Create a Discover session from the dashboard [add-ad-hoc-discover-session-panel]
```

```{applies_to}
stack: ga 9.4
serverless: ga
```

> Create a single-tab Discover session directly on a dashboard, without first saving it to the library. The session is stored with the dashboard as a by-value panel.

Author: ```suggestion
Create a single-tab Discover session directly on a dashboard, without first saving it to the library. The session is stored with the dashboard and isn't saved to the library.
```

> To use this option, you need permission to access Discover, and the dashboard must be in edit mode.

Author: ```suggestion
To use this option, you need permission to access Discover, and the dashboard must be in **Edit** mode.
```

1. On the dashboard, select **Add panel** > **New panel**.

> 2. In the **Visualizations** group, select {icon}`app_discover` **Discover session**. Discover opens in embedded editor mode with a new tab labeled **New Discover session**.

Author: ```suggestion
2. In the **Visualizations** group, select {icon}`app_discover` **Discover session**. Discover opens in embedded editor mode.
```

> 3. Configure the session: enter an {{esql}} query, adjust columns, sort, and other view settings as needed.

Author: ```suggestion
3. Configure the session: enter a query, adjust columns, sort, and other view settings as needed.
```

4. Select **Save and return** in the application menu to add the configured panel to the dashboard.

> #### Save the session from Discover, with Add to dashboard [save-discover-session-with-add-to-dashboard]

Author: ```suggestion
#### Add the session to a dashboard when saving it from Discover [save-discover-session-with-add-to-dashboard]
```

```{applies_to}
stack: ga 9.5
serverless: ga
```

When you save a new Discover session (or duplicate an existing one with **Save as**), you can add the saved session to a dashboard in the same step, without leaving Discover.

The **Add to dashboard** options appear in the **Save Discover session** modal when you're saving a new session, or when you've turned on **Save as new Discover session** to duplicate an existing one. They aren't shown when you save updates to an already-persisted session as-is, or when you're editing the session from a dashboard panel.

1. In the application menu, select **Save** (for a new session) or **Save** > **Save as** (to duplicate an existing one). The **Save Discover session** modal opens.
2. Enter a **Title**, and optionally a **Description**, [**Tags**](../find-and-organize/tags.md), and time settings.
3. Under **Add to dashboard**, choose where the session goes:

   - **Existing**: Add the session as a panel on a dashboard you select.
   - **New**: Add the session as a panel on a brand-new dashboard.
   - **None**: Save the session to the library only, without adding it to a dashboard.

> 4. Select **Save and add to library** (when **None** is selected) or **Save and go to Dashboard** (when **Existing** or **New** is selected).

Author: You can add a Discover session directly to a dashboard when saving it for the first time, as described in [#_save_a_discover_session].

Author: ```suggestion
You can add a Discover session directly to a dashboard when saving it for the first time, as described in [](#_save_a_discover_session).
```

#### Save panel edits as a new Discover session [discover-session-save-as-from-dashboard]
```{applies_to}

> stack: ga 9.4

Author: ```suggestion
stack: ga 9.5
```

serverless: ga
```

When editing a Discover session panel from a dashboard, you can save your changes as a new Discover session and place it on a dashboard, instead of updating the panel in place. This works whether the panel was added from the library or created directly on the dashboard.

1. On the dashboard, hover over the panel and select {icon}`pencil` **Edit Discover session configuration**. Discover opens in embedded editor mode.
2. Make your changes in **Discover**.
3. In the application menu, open the menu next to **Save and return** and select **Save as**.
4. In the **Save Discover session** modal, enter a **Title** for the new session, and optionally a **Description** and [**Tags**](../find-and-organize/tags.md).

> 5. Under **Add to dashboard**, choose where to display the new session:

Author: ```suggestion
5. In **Add to dashboard**, choose where to display the new session:
```

```

From Discover, save the current view of the table to a new or existing dashboard, without saving the Discover session to the library. The resulting panel stores its configuration with the dashboard, so later changes to the Discover session don't affect the panel. If the session has multiple tabs, only the current table is saved.

The button isn't available when Discover is opened from another application, such as when editing a session panel from a dashboard.

1. In the documents table toolbar, select {icon}`app_dashboard` **Save table to dashboard**.
2. Enter a title for the panel, and optionally a description.
3. In **Add to dashboard**, select **New** to create a dashboard, or **Existing** to choose one from the list.
4. Select **Save and go to dashboard**.

#### Save a Discover session to a dashboard or to the library [save-discover-session-with-add-to-dashboard]

From Discover, save the entire Discover session, including all its tabs, columns, sort order, and other settings.

::::{applies-switch}

:::{applies-item} {"stack": "ga 9.5", "serverless": "ga"}
When you save the session, the **Add to dashboard** option of the dialog determines what happens to it:

> - **New** or **Existing**: The session is saved as a panel on a dashboard. The panel's configuration is stored with the dashboard, and the session isn't saved to the library. If the session has multiple tabs, you can [choose which tab the panel displays](#discover-session-choose-tab) on the dashboard.

Reviewer 2: Overall the new structure works well, but this isn't quite right. Using "New" or "Existing" when saving a session still saves it to the library, it just also adds it to a dashboard.

The options basically break down into these:
- When clicking "Save" (or "Save as") in Discover's app menu, it saves a multi-tab session to the library, and the user can optionally also add it to a dashboard.
- When saving the Discover table directly or using the "Add" flow from a dashboard, it creates a single-tab session that is only saved to the dashboard and not the library.
- When saving the Discover vis, it's also only saved to the dashboard and not the library.

Author: @davismcphee ok I see what I did wrong when testing this: 
- the saved discover session won't appear in the Visualize library page
- it will only appear when selecting "from library" when adding a panel to a dashboard

I genuinely thought the library would allow us to find discover sessions as well

6. Select **Save and add to library** (when **None** is selected) or **Save and go to Dashboard** (when **Existing** or **New** is selected).

After saving, you go to the new session in **Discover** when you selected **None**, or to the corresponding dashboard when you selected **Existing** or **New**.

#### Choose which tab a session panel displays [discover-session-choose-tab]
```{applies_to}
stack: ga 9.4
serverless: ga
```

> A Discover session panel displays one tab at a time. When the underlying session has multiple tabs, you can change which tab the panel shows. This applies to panels added from the library; ad hoc and by-value session panels only have a single tab.

Author: ```suggestion
A Discover session panel displays one tab at a time. When the underlying session has multiple tabs, you can change which tab the panel shows.
```

   - **New**: Save the session and add it as a panel on a new dashboard. The original panel is unchanged.
   - **None**: Save the session to the library only, without adding it to a dashboard. The original panel is unchanged.

6. Select **Save and add to library** (when **None** is selected) or **Save and go to dashboard** (when **Existing** or **New** is selected).

After saving, you go to the new session in **Discover** when you selected **None**, or to the corresponding dashboard when you selected **Existing** or **New**.

#### Choose which tab a session panel displays [discover-session-choose-tab]
```{applies_to}
stack: ga 9.4
serverless: ga
```

A Discover session panel displays one tab at a time. When the underlying session has multiple tabs, you can change which tab the panel shows.

1. On the dashboard, open the panel menu and select **Edit**.
2. From the tab selector, select the tab you want to display.

   :::{image} /explore-analyze/images/discover-session-tab-selector.png
   :alt: Tab selector showing the list of available tabs for a Discover session panel

>    :screenshot:

Author: ```suggestion
   :width: 50%
   :screenshot:
```
